Delta (0.5 to 4 Hz).  This is normally generated in deep sleep, or
when unconsious.  Those experienced in deep trance states can generate
these waves whilst remaining conscious.

Theta (4 to 8 Hz).  This is the region between sleep and wakefulness,
in which *dreaming* and other dream-like (or 'hypnagogic') experiences
occur.  It's that bit just before you actually fall asleep at night,
or just before you are really awake in the morning.  They say it's in
this band that the unconscious talks to the conscious mind.  It also
seems to be connected with psychic or ESP-type functioning.

Alpha (8 to 13 Hz).  This is produced when you are awake and fully
conscious, but with your awareness focussed inside, such as when
trying to remember something, or when your eyes are closed.

Beta (13 to 30 Hz).  This is normally generated when you are awake,
with the attention focussed outside, dealing with the outside world.
It is also generated when you are solving logical problems, such as
mental arithmetic.


The binaural tones are based on a carrier frequency (in Hz), which
should typically be in the range 50 to 1000.  Frequencies above
1000-1500 or so are of no use because the brain does not react to
higher pitches binaurally in the same way (see the Monroe Institute
pages).  You can go down to 50Hz and below if you like, but make sure
that your headphones actually go that low first.  The actual beat
frequency <freq> (which the brain responds to) should typically be in
the range 0.5 to 30 Hz.  This corresponds to the ranges for Delta up
to Beta as described above.